Chore/296 template (#297)
influxdata/openapi: README.md

[Jump to API contracts.](./contracts)

- [Overview](#overview)
- [How to contribute](#how-to-contribute)
- [FAQs](#faqs)
- [How to generate client libraries](#how-to-generate-client-libraries)

## Overview

> This repository contains [OpenAPI specifications](https://www.openapis.org/) for InfluxData's various services. It provides a common place for shared API elements that are referenced by more specific API definitions.

Reviewer: "...referenced by more specific API definitions" elsewhere?

    ├── svc-[service].yml   # defines an individual service api
    ├── quartz-oem.yml      # defines the oem quartz api
    └── unity.yml           # defines the unity api

```

## How to contribute

> After you make changes, run `make generate-all` (`docker` currently required) to generate new API contracts.

Reviewer: To install Docker, see https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/.

Author: Reworked "How to contribute"

> After you make changes, run `make generate-all` (`docker` currently required) to generate new API contracts.

Reviewer: Perhaps we could add a section "Generate new API contracts" after the guidelines below, and then start with overview summary:

How to contribute
1. Add or update paths and operations.
2. Add or update service definitions.
3. Generate API contracts

Author: Reordered it all.

> Commit the result, including the updated `./contracts` files, and create a pull request.

Reviewer: Should we recommend and/or describe how to test before committing the result?

Author: `make generate-all` should provide all the validation that spec authors need.
I assume you mean generating ref docs? That's out of scope for this repo.

Use the following guidelines when adding or updating specifications.

### Paths and operations

> If you're adding or updating paths and operations (`get`, `post`, etc.), follow our [path template](./docs/templates/pathTemplate.yml) for `summary`, `description`, and `example` elements.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To add or update paths and operations (`get`, `post`, etc.), follow our [path template](./docs/templates/pathTemplate.yml) for `summary`, `description`, and `example` elements.
```

### Service definitions

> To add a service API definition, add the service specific components to a subdirectory inside `src/svc` and reference them from a file in `src` with a prefix `svc-`. This allows product API maintainers to copy the service-specific ("internal") paths and components into the respective API definition (cloud, cloud-priv, or oss) without modifying references. For more information on how to add a new service api defnition, see [src/svc/README](./src/svc/README.md).

Reviewer: do we want to recommend naming conventions for the subdirectory?

Reviewer: Do we have an example service to model? (maybe that's referred to in the svc README)

> To add a service API definition, add the service specific components to a subdirectory inside `src/svc` and reference them from a file in `src` with a prefix `svc-`. This allows product API maintainers to copy the service-specific ("internal") paths and components into the respective API definition (cloud, cloud-priv, or oss) without modifying references. For more information on how to add a new service api defnition, see [src/svc/README](./src/svc/README.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To add a service API definition, add the service specific components to a subdirectory inside `src/svc` and reference them from a file in `src` with a prefix `svc-`. This allows product API maintainers to copy the service-specific ("internal") paths and components into the respective API definition (cloud, cloud-priv, or oss) without modifying references. For more information on how to add a new service api definition, see [src/svc/README](./src/svc/README.md).
```

### Cloud and OSS divergence

> For information on what to do when the platform APIs drift, see [src/README](./src/README.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For information on what to do when the Cloud and OSS platform APIs diverge, see [src/README](./src/README.md).
```

## FAQs

### "Internal" vs "External" API?

- "Internal" API refers to a service API that is reachable directly (no gateway). A hypothetical example would be `taskd` talking directly to `queryd` without going through the gateway.
- "External" API refers to the API that a gateway serves.

### "Private" vs "Public" API?

> - "Private" API refers to an API that is not published in docs, requires some alternate method of auth (superuser token), a ui/quartz specific routes, or is not committing to stability.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- "Private" API refers to an API that is intentionally not published in docs, requires some alternate method of auth (for example, `superuser` token), a ui/quartz specific routes, or is not committing to stability.
```

- "Public" API refers to a documented API used for normal use of the platform.

> ### Versioning?

Reviewer: intentional question mark?

> - Since there is currently no code that supports API versioning, this repo will remain unversioned. Each swagger definition can define it's own api version, and consumers may test API changes on a branch, but until there is support for versioned APIs in code, we won't tag this repo.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Because there is currently no code that supports API versioning, this repo will remain unversioned. Each swagger definition can define it's own api version, and consumers may test API changes on a branch, but until there is support for versioned APIs in code, we won't tag this repo.
```

### Gateway?

- Gateway refers to the entry point into our platform (whether it be a reverse proxy or some other router).

### Flow of an external request?

- [client] -> [gateway] -> [service]
  - An external `client` makes a request for `/api/v2/thing`.
  - `gateway` finds where to handle requests for `/thing` and forwards the request to that service.
  - `service` then handles that request and responds to the client.

> 

Reviewer: number workflows?

### Flow of an internal request?

- [service] -> [service]
  - A `service` running inside the platform makes a request to another platform `service` at `/thing`.
  - `service` then handles that request and responds to the client (requesting `service`).

### Location?

> - Logic states that the further the API spec is from the implementing code, the greater the potential drift between the two. There are several reasons the service specific ("internal") definitions are in this repo and not living next to the code they define. Primarily it comes down to standardization. By standardizing on where to locate all swagger definitions, consumers aren't left wondering where they need to look for the current API contract of a service. Another equally important reason is more technical. While it is possible to reference swagger components via URL (as opposed to local relative file), the fact that many of the services are closed source re-introduce the issue of consuming private swagger. Third slightly relates to the last reason, as it simplifies the integration of the service into the "external" API (no reference path update required).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Logic states that the further the API spec is from the implemented code, the greater the potential drift between the two. There are several reasons the service specific ("internal") definitions are in this repo and not living next to the code they define. Primarily it comes down to standardization. By standardizing on where to locate all swagger definitions, consumers aren't left wondering where they need to look for the current API contract of a service. Another equally important reason is more technical. While it is possible to reference swagger components via URL (as opposed to local relative file), the fact that many of the services are closed source re-introduce the issue of consuming private swagger. Third slightly relates to the last reason, as it simplifies the integration of the service into the "external" API (no reference path update required).
```

Author: @kelseiv @sunbryely-influxdata Please look at ./docs/pathTemplate.yml again and let me know what you think. I still have some cleanup to do, but I don't expect to move or add much else for now.

I also still need to add @kelseiv's suggestions in the README.

- [Add or update paths and operations](#add-or-update-paths-and-operations)
- [Add or update service definitions](#add-or-update-service-definitions)
- [What to do when Cloud and OSS diverge](#what-to-do-when-cloud-and-oss-diverge)

### Add or update paths and operations

If you're adding or updating paths and operations (`get`, `post`, etc.), follow our [path template](./docs/templates/pathTemplate.yml) for `summary`, `description`, and `example` elements.

### Add or update service definitions

To add a service API definition, add the service specific components to a subdirectory inside `src/svc` and reference them from a file in `src` with a prefix `svc-`. This allows product API maintainers to copy the service-specific ("internal") paths and components into the respective API definition (cloud, cloud-priv, or oss) without modifying references. For more information on how to add a new service api defnition, see [src/svc/README](./src/svc/README.md).

### What to do when Cloud and OSS diverge

For information on what to do when platform APIs drift, see [src/README](./src/README.md).

### Add tag content or describe a group of paths

API reference docs

> ([OSS](https://docs.influxdata.com/influxdb/v2.2/api/,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
([OSS](https://docs.influxdata.com/influxdb/v2.2/api/),
```
